Hi, in today's video I'll be showing you
how you can generate maps using our
create tile set tool and extend
map. First thing we will do is open up
create tile set. And here we will start
off by generating grass to sand uh with
transition size none.
You can also use existing tiles that you
have and create transitions between them
so you don't have to generate new ones
every
time. All right. Now we got a our first
uh tile set. So let's uh create another
one. And to make sure everything is
tiling together, we will select the
uh sand tile and use that as our
reference. And then for out of
description, let's do ocean. So we get a
sand to ocean uh transition.
And let's continue this by going from uh
grass to dirt
road. So that we yeah everything you
know we want to make sure that they work
together and that's why we will continue
setting them as reference.
So now let's do a transition size which
means that we can have like something in
between the inner and outer uh tiles.
And in this case, I want to do uh grass
to stone pavement to dirt
road. And I I forgot to uh set the outer
tile. So now we'll make sure that we can
use them together.
So what you can see here is the uh grass
like the inner description or inner tile
will be below the outer one. So for this
case
uh I reconsider and I want instead uh
switch it up so I have the dirt road be
below the grass because that feels more
natural.
So, I'm just going to switch places and
remember to use the selection
tool. And it will
automatically depending if you have uh
tile size 16x 16 or 32x 32, it will
select an area of that size.
All
right. Quite nice. And you can see the
dirt is like
below. And here I will pop over to
advanced options. You can see it. AI
border freedom will affect how much it
will look like the transition or like
the area in between the two tile tile
types and tile set adherence is how
experimentive the uh model can be and it
might fail to make tile sets if it's too
low. Okay, let's create a tile set with
roughly one tile in height instead.
And when you do this, it will create a
new canvas with uh uh yeah, a larger
canvas so it can fit the tile set cuz it
won't fit in the uh normal
one. And I also decrease the uh tile set
adherence a little bit so the model can
be a bit more expressive in its
generation. But yeah, you have to be
quite careful when playing around with
that. Now that we have all our tile
sets, we can grab them and then move
them into our map. And then if you right
click on the layer, you can select tile
map mode and it will swap out your
pallet for tiles instead. And then you
can start drawing in. So, I will be
speeding this up quite a bit, but
basically you can go through and add in
your tiles. Uh, there's also tools for
this. Uh, you can try out Sprite Fusion,
which will automatically uh do like all
these rules. So, instead of like picking
them by hand, it will do it
automatically for you. But this is more
of a showcase on how you can do this in
a
sprite. And uh, yeah.
It's quite nice. And if you figure out,
oh wait, I need a another tile set type,
you can just go over and generate a new
one. And here I want to generate
uh like grass to water and like a rock
in
between. So that's what I do. And then
I'm just going to go grab it and put it
over to like the tile maps and it will
be added to my
pallet. Just remember to convert it to a
tile map so you can copy paste it
over. And yeah.
All right, we have completed our map.
Now let's uh add some details and make
it a more a bit more alive using extend
map tool. Remember to select the the
latest version uh extend map ver
v2. So first you want to make sure you
inpaint and when you do that in paint in
like a draw in the layer called pixelab
in painting. Then use selection tool to
select the
area. And now remember to describe the
whole image and not just what you want
in paint. So in this case I want a
wooden bridge from a beach to uh a path
dirt
path dirt road sorry and here I forget
to change camera view from uh side
scroll to high top down but uh
thankfully that didn't uh create any
issues and now let's uh add a house
here. So, first I in I draw in the
inping layer where I want the house to
be. And it's good to note
like if you make a very small
inp like something that is
smaller. Uh so it's good to make it uh
quite big. And then you know remember to
select the area and then you can click
generate.
And you know you can use this to change
things, add you know trees,
forest, flowers, anything. And in this
case I would like a palm tree on the
beach. And you can see like my
description is of the beach as well, not
just a palm tree. I'm using selection. I
in paint and then I click generate.
And here I'm just uh editing this
um mountainous bit to make it uh a bit
prettier. So first I'm thinking, oh
let's just edit the top part cuz the
lower part is quite nice. But then after
I've done it, I was like, hm, maybe I
could do better on the bottom part as
well. And yes, the model successfully
did that.
Uh, thank you for watching. If you have
any questions, feel free to ask them
here or in our Discord channel. I will
do my best to give you a good
answer. And uh, yeah, I will see you in
the next video.